all of my videos are pretty spontaneous
this one maybe a little bit more
spontaneous than usual I've got a
question that for me relates to the past
president future of this channel I've
been asked lately to comment on new
political developments in Cambodia there
have been some very traumatic very
historically significant political
developments in Cambodia lately I have
been watching that I've been kind of
walking around my apartment talking to
my girlfriend about that
I mean I've also been watching very
dramatic political events unfolding in
Iraq Iran Saudi Arabia Yemen
there's been a lot going on that I
personally do care about and try to
follow and try to you know respond to
within my personal relationships in life
so I mean the question could be glossed
as why am I not talking about the stuff
of my youtube channel so when I first
started my youtube channel it was not
meant to be a vegan Channel when I first
moved to Victoria BC Canada I really did
imagine that my channel would have
wide-ranging discussions of political
history and current ongoing political
problems especially in Asian politics
and probably it was inevitable that I
was going to talk about First Nations
politics if I was living and working in
Canada continuously which was my
assumption when I moved to Victoria I
was not planning to move straight back
to Asia after that so that probably
would have been about halfway between
the format I currently have on YouTube
and the format you see on shows like The
Young Turks or there's a there's a
spin-off project from The Young Turks
called the Jimmy Dore show probably it
would've been close to the Jimmy Dore
sort show but I was really planning to
have other students from political
science from politics of Asia come in
and sit at a round table with me and
talk about what was going on especially
in politics of Asia so that was me on
well it's my area of past expertise and
what I thought I'd be working on it was
at that time it was researching and
writing essays about politics of Asia
and so on now weather is what I didn't
happen was and it's a very very
depressing element of universities in
Canada I did not meet one person not one
student at any level who had any
interest in politics of Asia even though
I was in an academic department
dedicated to the politics of Asia in
Canada I can remember you can
in a 400 level course on philosophy of
Plato and there isn't one person in the
course who's interested in philosophy of
Plato you can have a whole department
dedicated to a topic and you don't meet
a single person in that department who's
actually interested in the topic this is
quite common in Canada you can be in
department of Korean Ojibwe languages at
First Nations University and you can't
find even one student who's interested
in learning Cree and achieved way as
languages you know this is a recurring
feature of my life but yeah it was kind
of I mean I can't say it's a shocking
disappointment because it was kind of
long slow but it was this this this you
know bizarre element of my life in
Victoria BC that there was absolutely
nobody for me to talk to you about
politics or specifically politics of
Asia despite the fact that really was my
major and what I was doing
aside from my aside from my professors I
did have a lot of conversations with
with my professors and because I'm an
older student you know obviously some of
the professor's spoke to me as equals
you know not all of them but some some
of them were quite happy to sit down and
have those kinds of casual conversation
with me and to treat me more or like an
equal rather than talk to me like I'm a
19 year old student because I'm a
student but I'm not remotely 19 years
old anymore anyway there was definitely
time when that was what I thought my
channel would be and become and there
have been different times when I've
looked at kind of going back to that
format going back to that plan and now
as I look ahead in the calendar I'm
looking at going back to Canada
I'm going back via France I'm going to
see my daughter again then going back to
France go back to France then going back
from France to Canada there's the
possibility that again this will become
a bit more of a kind of news and
politics show now at this moment and
during this last year or year and a half
in China
I felt that wasn't an option for me for
a variety of reasons one is just not
having access to publications not having
access to an academic library not having
access to any of the major kind of
magazines on on paper and you know
obviously limited access to the Internet
itself and too we did at at the time I
arrived and conveying right around there
was actually a crackdown on live
streaming services in in China because
in China we
have some freedom of speech some I
received a propaganda message on my my
cell phone from the Chinese government
reminding me of that
not so long ago it said something in
Chinese like enjoy the broadcasting
privileges you have without overstepping
the limits of those privileges in China
we do have more freedom of speech than
many other countries but there are
limits and among the limits that was
really explained to the public and and
imposed a new there was a crackdown so
we all got the message around town first
got China was the idea that if you want
to discuss the news on the Internet you
must have a news broadcasters license so
in the same way that you can't drive a
car or that a driver's license in a
country like Canada you are not allowed
to discuss the news on the Internet not
even in a live streaming format like not
even in a spontaneous manner unless you
have a news broadcasters license so
there's a crackdown on live streaming
services and obviously I mean using
YouTube itself is completely blocked and
banned and illegal in China to begin
with so that was one consideration I
would say that right now in Thailand you
have less freedom of speech than China
so it's not the case that I could be
back and forth from Thailand or
something and uploading there or running
a second kind of news channel and the
third thing is to remember I mean I
often do say in a certain sense that I
don't care about the number of views
again I don't care about the level of
success again that is true for most of
these videos that are either about my
life or about the future of the vegan
movement or about things I'm really
passionate about what's like look you
know like I really care about the future
of the vegan movement I really care you
know about sharing with you guys certain
things about my personal life you know
my relationship with my daughter or even
my experience with the university things
of that that I just do care about that I
really had to unburden myself talking
about how awful my experience university
as we had a couple videos on that lately
so there are some topics on which it's
true I'm gonna make the same video
whether a hundred people see it or 5000
people see it that would also be true of
the Korean NGO boy stuff I've done a
series of videos lately that have a very
small number of viewers each but that's
okay I accept that I know not that many
people are interested in my perspective
on First Nations politics creative way
etc etc language politics its own Canada
but I care about that enough that I'm
gonna make that video even if a very
small number people see it however on
the other hand when you're looking at
putting together the effort to do a kind
of newsdesk Mormon I got this question
asking me will I switch to a little bit
more of a newsdesk format and talk about
what's been going on lately North Korea
what's going on lately and Mosul and
Iraq perhaps but you know what's been
going on obviously Cambodia's is a great
example of something where my background
adhesion studies in politics I know
things about this I want to know more
I'd enjoy doing the research and prep to
put together a really high-quality
informative video on that like I benefit
from it but I'm also kind of burdened by
how much I know from past research and I
want to kind of share my perspective and
Stoke up discussion you know what I'd
love to do that but if I make videos of
that kind if I put in that effort is it
just gonna be you know for 100 people
now the other reality is the main
collaborator having these videos is my
girlfriend Melissa and I do talk to her
about that it's like well does she want
to go through the process of researching
according those videos than me you know
where she's sitting down and talking
with me at the camera
you know chit-chatting about these
things and again it may really be you
know the latest developments in Saudi
Arabian foreign policy and geopolitics
very strange triangular alliance in the
United States Saudi Arabia and Israel a
lot of action on that topic just just
these last few weeks a lot to say about
that or maybe you know the United States
and their war against Isis North Korea
Cambodia all these issues that fermier
with time or even current politics of
Thailand so if I'm back you can't even
take that on a as much work as that
might be for me obviously would also be
asking a lot of my girlfriend will be
putting her in a position and you know
in terms of the collaborators I was
hoping for
I was assuming I would do those kinds of
videos with maybe someone who was
getting a master's degree or PhD someone
was a graduate student in Asian politics
someone who's already dug into that Lane
so it's an open question my girlfriend
and I now assume that when we go back to
Canada
we're gonna enroll in college courses
together in cuisine in learning how to
bake vegan bread so this channel might
start to take on some very very
different types of content on the one
hand when I'm back in Canada I'll have
more freedom of speech I'll actually be
able to talk about politics I'll be able
to livestream about in court videos
about the news what's been going on now
whether that's politics of Asia politics
within Canada firstly I could say a lot
about both US and Canada of course I
could start following and stuff respond
to that stuff on the other hand it seems
inevitable that we're gonna start making
videos about baking about baking bread
about baking cakes about vegan cuisine
and cooking because that's part of what
we're gonna do at their time it's
possible be making videos that will
reflect short-term jobs and job
applications and credential ization and
some of that stuff going on in my in my
life but yeah for me it is still an open
question right now I really haven't had
the luxury to take on things like new
political developments in Cambodia once
I have that luxury again in Canada would
I should I or could i it's really easy
to look at what's going on to youtube
right now and say look there's a big gap
for talking about politics of Asia very
very the past I did a survey to see what
there was The Young Turks don't cover
politics of Asia and they're very very
few channels doing anything like that
there's certainly a gap I think for
talking about politics of Canada and
indeed even First Nations politics
specifically but I've built up my small
audience of people who will line up to
hear me give morality lectures really on
the basis of vegan politics in pekin
politics alone and you'd be looking at a
really tough struggle to even reach 1000
viewers starting for them starting at if
I take on that direction so I'm gonna
have to look at what libraries I have
access to and what positive difference I
can make by taking on that kind of
content and taking on that kind of
format but this is something I think
about I'm literate I'm in a situation
right now where it's funny I mean like I
say I share my life with people on
YouTube but not even out of censorship
the reality is I talk about and care
about all these things in politics and
political science
and I mean really like I'm here in my
apartment reading about them every day
watching the news about them every day
and talking to my girlfriend about them
every day and it's really strange
because that right now is completely
absent from the side of my life you see
here on YouTube here on YouTube you
really only see me thinking and talking
about politics and philosophy within the
vegan movement not in the broader world
not you know the question of kind of the
political future of Canada not the
political future of the continent of
Asia you know obviously I have more
engagement with some parts of Asia than
others it being a huge and diverse
continent can that change and for you
guys is the audience would that even be
a change for the better or would I end
up just a leading the audience I've got
and having to start from scratch big
questions